well meanwhile the Israeli military says
it's taken control of the AL shifer
Hospital in what it called an operation
to thwart terrorist activity the
hospital is in Gaza City in the north of
the strip the Israeli military said
troops came under Fire and that 80
people were detained and others killed
including a senior commander of hamas's
internal security
service well these are images from the
raid you can hear those gunshots can't
you there Witnesses described heavy
exchanges of fire around the site where
thousands of displaced people are
currently Sheltering and Medics are also
still working with patients who are
being treated well gaza's health
Ministry said Israel was committing a
war crime let's hear though from an
Israeli government spokesperson now this
morning the IDF conducted a precise
operation to thwart terrorism in the
shifa hospital area footage shows
terrorists firing from deep within the
shifa
complex our forces engaged the
terrorists tens of Hamas terrorists have
been detained in the shifa
hospital well the spokesperson there was
talking about these images have a look
they were released by the IDF who say
they show troops coming under Fire it's
a short clip that doesn't confirm the
time or sequence of the events Gaza
Health officials have repeatedly denied
the accusation that Hamas Fighters
operate inside or underneath alifa and
other hospitals well these pictures here
show the aftermath of that raid the
Israeli military said there was no
obligation for medical staff or patients
to leave and that the hospital could
continue its important functions but
several medical staff inside the
hospital told the BBC El electricity had
been cut and they'd been instructed by
the Israeli military not to move
prohibiting them from properly treating
their patients well International Medics
who've worked in Gaza say the Medics
need to be protected I do not believe
the idea have provided any credible
evidence since October the 7th and
indeed before then that these hospitals
were being used as uh Hamas command
centers uh I've been in shifa hospital
on many occasions I've spoken to people
who I've known for many years who work
there a and I I do not believe there is
any evidence to suggest
that Let's cross live Let's cross live
now to Rafa and speak to James Elder
spokesperson for the United Nations uh
Children's Fund uh James thanks for
joining us here on BBC News and let me
just ask you first of all for your
reaction to what we've been saying today
about the potential famine that is going
to hit Gaza very hard in the coming
months yeah it's hitting Gaza I mean we
might wait for an official
classification Mariam but the reality is
that won't mean a lot to people on the
ground here we are now seeing children
dying of starvation of malnutrition
normally Maran Mal nutrition is an
underlying cause it's not what kills a
child a child will die from something
like pneumonia to see a child die from
malnutrition because you've heard all
those numbers they're terrifying we've
never seen anything like this before in
Gaza as per that IPC the classification
on famine we've never seen a
classification as severe as this one for
this many people a percentage of people
but Maran when you drill it down to a
child a child who is dying of
malnutrition in a hospital they'll look
for vein they'll look for it in the arm
the body will have constricted highly
traumatic have probably look for a vein
in the head and eventually the child
will die we are seeing this our very
real fear is we're going to see it on a
scale that we've never seen before what
do you think now needs to happen to turn
the tide because Aid agencies are saying
aren't they or at least Antonio gues
said that it's not too late to turn the
tide and the Secretary General is dead
right the frustrating thing is it's not
that complicated it requires more land
routes and there are land routs within
kilometers of where I am uh you know
more land routs to get Aid in you know
it's yes we see air drops we see now
Ships coming in the ship that it came in
will be the equivalent of 12 or 13
trucks today as I came back into Gaza I
passed hundreds and hundreds of trucks
so we need the facilitation of those
trucks by the occupying power who has a
lead legal obligation facilitate them
get them in flood Gaza with the food
that literally is just a matter of
kilometers from me maram and of course a
ceasefire ceasefire would enable people
to breathe again for the trauma they I
mean you probably can't hear the drones
they are Relentless there is a trauma
that is hitting children here just as
hard as the food deprivation so cease
fire and get the trucks that are so
close and yet so far get them across to
the families who so desperately need
them James we've just been breaking some
news in the last half an hour that
Israel is sending a delegation to
Washington to talk about a potential uh
military operation that has been moted
for a while now by Israel into inside
Rafa just give people who are watching
this a sense of what that would mean to
the over a million people who are inside
Rafa right now if there were to be a
military operation there of any
sort that's mindboggling it's it makes
my body shake uh you you see Rafer it's
very hard to walk in Rafa there are
informal settlements and stra and Tents
and anywhere someone can move to because
they were told to move here three or
four times having had their homes bombed
or being evacuated under incursion or an
offensive from a shelter they are in so
it's very hard to move in rappa it is a
city of children 600,000 plus children
twice the density population density of
New York City but no highrises
everyone's on the ground and offensive
in that area I mean it's it's terrifying
it's offensive to imagine so we just
hope that calm heads can Prevail because
that would be utterly devastating for
children and we have seen some
horrendous devastating for girls and
boys of Gaza okay James Elder from the
UN thank you very much indeed for
joining us live from
Rafa